The Cycle Truly Never Ends

SamStara (18+) is a fork of the ‘Frontier Station’ Space Station 14 server partially borne out of frustration with how curated that server’s experience is. While this is a viable choice, a more roleplay oriented, emergent universe is preferred for SamStara’s ethos.

Part of this is that the admins will try not to intervene to ‘correct’ issues in the emergent universe. If the world is dangerous - there needs to be more sec. If a ship is lost - it must be recovered. If there is a sheriff or station representative who is corrupt - they are the authority. However, the admins may, as they see fit, intervene as CentCommand, following the logic and intentions that CentCommand follows. CentCommand is not, however, here to protect you - it is here to protect the station.

However, if you are a pirate, or a corrupt rep or sheriff, remember - if the things you do threaten the stability of this sector too much, you will draw CentCommand’s ire. Their predictive models are a terrible thing - and you would do well to avoid the reckoning.

There Are Some Exceptions
Bigotry isn’t a good character choice - at best, it’s a weak crutch, at worst it’s a shitty smokescreen. While this doesn’t necessarily include ‘in-universe’ bigotry, such as xenophobia between races, if you’re a racist, people aren’t going to like you. No amount of ‘but it’s because of the war!’ or whatever other pathos you’ve assigned to it will change that.
Know the difference between being a griefer and being a scamp. We like scamps - scamps make problems for other people to solve without necessarily enjoying their misery. Griefers remove other people from the game, close off game opportunities and make others miserable for their own satisfaction. If you’re going to antagonise - great! Just make sure it’s in character (as all things should be), and that you’re being more of a scamp than a griefer.
There is a catch-all, general proviso here for being what is known as ‘A Fucking Mutant’. This is not the same a mutant, or even a fucking mutant, which unlike most SS14 servers we do not shame or look down upon. A Fucking Mutant is someone who is just miserable to be around, who justifies their miserable behaviour with flimsy RP excuses, and who cannot Act Regular to save their life. Please do not be A Fucking Mutant. If you are being A Fucking Mutant by accident (this is very difficult!) the first request will be to stop. The second request will be to leave.

SamStara is not preserving a legacy! SamStara has no obligation to the past or to the public good! SamStara admins are only accountable to one another and the fact they want you to play! Luckily, SamStara admins are also chronic people pleasers who don’t want to hurt you unless you’re being the kind of person who doesn’t belong here anyway. If you play Samsara, you are almost certainly the kind of person who belongs here. If you aren’t, there’s always Samsara to return to! SamStara is for entities 18 and up!

All rules following this page are ‘in-universe’ and apply to your RP experience and how the game is to be run in character.This is also an evolving document.

Ok good luck have fun we love you mwah.
Station Laws
CentComm is broadly only concerned with two things - that which cuts into profits, and that which threatens the station. Reducing these two things is the purview of the sheriff, and is to be conducted how they see fit. CentComm does not mandate that security police the sector beyond what is strictly necessary to protect the company. In practice, this means the execution of pirates who threaten CentComm workers, and the obstruction of smuggling practices which avoid the CentComm economic structure. The sheriff’s authority, otherwise, should not be expected to extend beyond Frontier Outpost and whatever ships choose to dock with it. While the representative and sheriff are allowed to run the FO how they see fit, the following provisos are given.

Expansion and Occupations on Station
Any building or business operated aboard FO must either be done by an employee of the station, or pay its dues to the station for conducting said business. Any business operating without a permit and without paying its hourly dues to the station can and will be punished by security how the sheriff sees fit.
When working for the station, employees are to be paid hourly by either the representative or the sheriff, depending on if they are civilian or security. The rep & sheriff can fill in for the other, in the case of their absence, and the sergeant can fill in for the sheriff if need be. ‘Hourly’ here always refers to shift time. If a staff member joins during an hour or has to leave during an hour, pay them the most appropriate fraction of their hourly pay possible (I.E. 5k for 30 minutes of work).
Minimum wage, as ordained by CentCommand, is 10k/hour for all personnel. Higher wages may be offered as the SR or sheriff see fit. Bonuses should be offered as necessary for morale. Embezzling is frowned upon by CentCommand, but not outright prohibited so long as the station runs smoothly.
The sheriff controls the alert level of the station. Weapons are not to be carried openly at green alert. At blue alert, non-lethals can be carried openly. At red alert, lethals may be carried openly. Security always considers itself one alert level higher than civilians. If a weapon is carried, the expectation is that it will be used. The use of this fact for intimidation is expected by CentCommand.

Lawyers and the Court
Lawyers are NOT station staff. Regardless, there is always room for at least one lawyer on board the FO, and lawyers must register with the SR. If the SR prevents someone from registering as a lawyer, CentCommand will be forced to punish them. There are rules that not even CentCommand can break.
Lawyers are NOT security members. The sheriff has no control over lawyers, and if a lawyer demands the prosecution provide evidence, security must evidence their charge. If they cannot do so, the charge is dropped. If they can, it moves to the courthouse. The lawyer is responsible for transporting their client, and the sheriff is responsible for transporting the arresting officer.
At the courthouse, a trial will be conducted, with a member of CentCommand as a judge. The lawyer must defend their client, and the arresting officer or sheriff must prosecute. There are no juries in space - the judge’s word is final.
Contempt of court is punishable by ultradeath. There are rules not even CentCommand can break.
Lawyers intervene only in the case of arrests and incarceration.
